# Adding linter to GH actions
A linter is a tool used to analyse + highlight errors in coding style. Some examples include
* Pylint
* Flake8
* Black

I will use Black to format the code by adding a github action job. I am trying to work out how to first lint the code, and then run the tests on the linted-changes.

# Pre-commit hooks
I had a mistaken understanding of how linting should work with github actions, I thought I could do the linting in github actions and it would make changes to the commit. However, I don't think it can be done like this - the linting in the CI is just used to check. In order to automatically do linting every commit we need to configure a `pre-commit hook`, which is basically just a script that is run before a commit is processed.
We can do this using the pre-commit package. After installing a pre-commit, we create a file called `pre-commit-config.yaml`, I can just copy the configuration specified in the [Black documentation](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/integrations/source_version_control.html).
Next run `pre-commit install` to set up the git hooks, and black will automatically run after every commit

# CFFI vs PyBind11
I have narrowed down the C binding choices down to CFFI and PyBind11. I will do some more in depth research about them both.

### Repo activity
PyBind11 seems to be a more actively developed and popular project.

| Statistic                | PyBind11 | CFFI                   |
|--------------------------|----------|------------------------|
| # Issues                 | 447      | 76                     |
| # Merge requests         | 115      | 5                      |
| # Commits                 | 2717     | 3450                  |
| Hosted on                | Github   | Gitlab (FOSS Heptapod) |
| # Docs updates this year | 7        | 0                      |
From looking at both of the projects pages, it seems that PyBind11 is a much more active project, with higher quality documentation. However, it is only suitable for C++ files. It also has tutorials + documentation for the SetupTools backend

# Build + Packaging: Setup tools
Currently the repo uses a build back-end called hatchling. However, this does not support C-Extension Modules. setuptools is another backend that does have support for C extension modules and includes tutorials for such. PyBind11 also has tutorials for this.

[Here](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/ext_modules.html) is an example of how to build a package in C++ 

[Pybind11 python build example](https://github.com/pybind/python_example)
