# Build and package a C extension module
Building a package that includes a C extension module is more complex as a stage of compiling the C module is required. `Setuptools` or `cmake` build system is required and a new configuration file `setup.py` is required. The `setup.py` will handle the C compilation into a shared object

# Learning gcc + compile process
The libeaf library is in C, however pybind11 is a C++ library. I should learn how to work with gcc and g++ in order to understand how to get the C files workigng with C++.
I will create a C++ wrapper file that includes PyBind11, and also the libeaf C files.

Compilation process has 4 steps:
1. Preprocessing
   * Remove comments
   * Includes code of header files
   * Replaces all macros with their values
   * Creates .i extension file
   * use `gcc -E main.c`
2. Compiling
3. * Takes pre-processed code and generates "intermediate representation" code
   * Creates .s extension file
   * use `gcc -S main.c`
4. Assembling
   * Takes IR code and translates it to object code
   * Creates .o file
   * use `gcc -c main.c`
5. linking
   * Creates final executale file
   * Link multiple .o object codes together

Use `gcc main.c -o program_name` to name the program

In order to mix C++ and C files we should do this order:
1. Compile the C source with a C compiler.
2. Compile the C++ source with a C++ compiler
3. Preferably, write the main() function in C++.
4. Link the program with a C++ compiler.

see [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13694605/how-to-use-c-source-files-in-a-c-project ), we should use exten to
```
extern "C" {
#include "cheader.h"
}
```

My idea is to compile all the C files with gcc, have a C++ file that includes the C files and a PyBind11 files, and then compile this with g++ and see if it will work

# CFFI as an alternative
CFFI implementation seems less complex because it doesn't require any changing of C code, and it doesn't require C++. However it is less actively developed and doesn't have as many examples for building with CI compared to PyBind11. 

# Issue with program_invocation_short_name
When compiling with with gcc MingW64 on windows 11, I had issues with compiling the libeaf library, I had this error message
```
C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/../lib/gcc/x86_64-w64-mingw32/11.2.0/../../../../x86_64-w64-mingw32/bin/ld.exe: C:\Users\fergu\AppData\Local\Temp\ccUAed3s.o:io.c:(.rdata$.refptr.program_invocation_short_name[.refptr.program_invocation_short_name]+0x0): undefined reference to `program_invocation_short_name'
```
However, it worked on my WSL debian installation version of gcc. This might be an issue later on in my development when I want to compile for multiple different environments.


# Tests with calling C library in C++
In this commit I added a test for calling C libraries in C++. I added a main.cpp file, and added a function to io.c that will just print a number.
```
// Within io.c
void test_print(int to_print){
    printf("Printing %d",to_print);
}
```

```
// Main.cpp
extern "C" {
    #include "io.h"
}
int main() {
    test_print(5);

    return 0;
}
```
We must also change some lines of `io.h`, because in C++  the malloc() function requires strong type casting. 
```
+ minmax = (signed char*)malloc (sizeof(signed char) * *nobj); //C++ implementation

- minmax = malloc(sizeof(signed char) * *nobj); // C implementation
```

Now we can compile the io.c without linking
`gcc -c io.c`
And then compile main.cpp with the g++ compiler, linking with the io.o compiled object file
`g++ main.c io.o -o test_output`

This was compiled in Debian, note that the produced executable binary file works in debian but __not__ in windows.