# Setuptools not including .c files in the distribution
I have been getting an issue when building the project:

`fatal error: io.h: No such file or directory`

After doing some research, I unzipped the tar.gz file that was being built, and noticed that no C files were included. By default, [setuptools does not include any C headers](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/miscellaneous.html#controlling-files-in-the-distribution) so I can specify them in an extra file calle `manifest.in`.

I don't like adding a lot of extra configuration files to root directory because it makes the repo look messy, but it seems to be a quirk of python development. I could try to include it using one of the already existing configurations.

I found [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71183800/how-to-include-header-file-in-source-distribution) stack overflow question that suggested adding the header files to the distribtion, by adding `package_data={"": ["*.h"]}` to the `setup.py` `setup()` function. This only included header files, however I modifed it to `package_data={"": ["*.h","*.c"]}` to include the C files also and it worked! 

# Source distribution vs build distribution
The source distribution (sdist) is a set of files that can be used to re-build the module on any platform or python versioj. The source distribution is build first as a tar.gz file, and then the build distribution is built. sdist contains a setup.py file

The build distribution (bdist) contains files - such as the .so or binary files - that are unique to a platform or python version. So when our C extension is compiled, it will be put in the build distribution but not the source distribution

# Build fixed